+++
title = "Another New Website"
summary = "When change is too fast, you adapt... quicker?"
tags = [
    "Blog",
    "Personal",
]
date = "2020-03-11"
toc = false
+++

## Why do personal websites always take me four or five goes to get right?

When I heard that I was going to be nominated for the Developer MVP I set about building a new portfolio/personal website for blogging and such. That's where I landed on VuePress and some plugins. At the time I hadn't used a static page generator before and it seemed pretty easy. I spent about a week customizing it and getting it to my liking, and then, of course, all the plugins and tools I was using updated and my customizations broke.

I had heard about [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) before but being in a new language (Go) I wasn't too interested. Javascript and a Framework I wanted to learn sounded better. But... Well here I am, having rebuilt the website in Hugo, using a theme, and making the same (or similar) customizations in less than a day.

I'd like to shout out to [@Jace](https://jace.pro) as he also uses Hugo for his amazingly useful site, and I believe the [ServiceNow Developer Blog](https://developer.servicenow.com/blog.do) uses it too.

## Radio Silence

It's been busy at home (and work) recently so I haven't had as much time to write as I would like, but I'm hoping to turn that around (ha ha) spending some more time on my commute working on stuff and writing. I'd also like to focus more on my YouTube channel, but that will probably take second fiddle for a while.

## Knowledge 2020

I was really hoping to get to Orlando this year and take part in my first ServiceNow Knowledge conference, but with the current COVID-19 situation and our organization locking down non-essential travel, I think that it's becoming less and less likely. We will have to see what digital content is available during the week.

I have a few more blogs lined up, including my experience with Virtual Agent - stay tuned!

`- Andrew`